The notion of dialogue likens human–computer interaction to human-to-human interaction: an analogy that is crucial to theoretical considerations in the field.[3][4]Humans interact with computers in many ways, and the interface between the two is crucial to facilitating this interaction. Instead of designing regular interfaces, the different research branches focus on the concepts of multimodality[6] over unimodality, intelligent adaptive interfaces over command/action based ones, and active interfaces over passive interfaces.[citation needed]The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) defines human–computer interaction as "a discipline that is concerned with the design, evaluation, and implementation of interactive computing systems for human use and with the study of major phenomena surrounding them".[5] HCI is also sometimes termed human–machine interaction (HMI), man-machine interaction (MMI) or computer-human interaction (CHI). It goes on to say:"Because human–computer interaction studies a human and a machine in communication, it draws from supporting knowledge on both the machine and the human side. Human–computer interaction (HCI) is research in the design and the use of computer technology, which focuses on the interfaces between people (users) and computers. How usability is to be precisely understood, how it relates to other social and cultural values, and when it is, and when it may not be a desirable property of computer interfaces is increasingly debated.[11][12]Much of the research in the field of human–computer interaction takes an interest in:Visions of what researchers in the field seek to achieve might vary. The human–computer interface can be described as the point of communication between the human user and the computer. As a field of research, human–computer interaction is situated at the intersection of computer science, behavioral sciences, design, media studies, and several other fields of study. A classic example is the Three Mile Island accident, a nuclear meltdown accident, where investigations concluded that the design of the human-machine interface was at least partly responsible for the disaster.[7][8][9] Similarly, accidents in aviation have resulted from manufacturers' decisions to use non-standard flight instruments or throttle quadrant layouts: even though the new designs were proposed to be superior in basic human-machine interaction, pilots had already ingrained the "standard" layout. One of the main conferences for new research in human–computer interaction is the annually held Association for Computing Machinery's (ACM) Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, usually referred to by its short name CHI (pronounced kai, or Khai). On the human side, communication theory, graphic and industrial design disciplines, linguistics, social sciences, cognitive psychology, social psychology, and human factors such as computer user satisfaction are relevant. The loop of interaction has several aspects to it, including:Human–computer interaction studies the ways in which humans make—or do not make—use of computational artifacts, systems, and infrastructures. The growth in human–computer interaction field has led to an increase in the quality of interaction, and resulted in many new areas of research beyond. Much of the research in this field seeks to improve the human–computer interaction by improving the usability of computer interfaces.[10] The iterative design process is repeated until a sensible, user-friendly interface is created.[15]Various strategies delineating methods for human–PC interaction design have developed since the conception of the field during the 1980s. The potential of telling human emotions in an automated and digital fashion lies in improvements to the effectiveness of human–computer interaction. Because of potential issues, human–computer interaction shifted focus beyond the interface to respond to observations as articulated by D. Engelbart: "If ease of use were the only valid criterion, people would stick to tricycles and never try bicycles. The influence of emotions in human–computer interaction has been studied in fields such as financial decision-making using ECG and organizational knowledge sharing using eye-tracking and face readers as affect-detection channels. Traditionally, computer use was modeled as a human–computer dyad in which the two were connected by a narrow explicit communication channel, such as text-based terminals. In human and computer interactions, a semantic gap usually exists between human and computer's understandings towards mutual behaviors. The term was popularized by Stuart K. Card, Allen Newell, and Thomas P. Moran in their 1983 book, The Psychology of Human–Computer Interaction, although the authors first used the term in 1980,[1] and the first known use was in 1975.[2] Topics in human–computer interaction include the following:Social computing is an interactive and collaborative behavior considered between technology and people. In the interaction of humans and computers, research has studied how computers can detect, process, and react to human emotions to develop emotionally intelligent information systems. However, memory use may sometimes benefit the user by eliminating the need to reference some knowledge globally (e.g., an expert computer operator would rather use direct commands from memory than refer to a manual). Human–computer interaction is affected by developments in computing. The flow of information between the human and computer is defined as the loop of interaction. Voice user interfaces (VUI) are used for speech recognition and synthesizing systems, and the emerging multi-modal and Graphical user interfaces (GUI) allow humans to engage with embodied character agents in a way that cannot be achieved with other interface paradigms. The following experimental design principles are considered, when evaluating a current user interface, or designing a new user interface: In these fields, it has been shown that affect-detection channels have the potential to detect human emotions and those information systems can incorporate the data obtained from affect-detection channels to improve decision models. CHI is organized by ACM Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction (SIGCHI). Researchers in HCI are interested in developing design methodologies, experimenting with devices, prototyping software and hardware systems, exploring interaction paradigms, and developing models and theories of interaction. These principles of human perception and information processing can be utilized to create an effective display design. Desktop applications, internet browsers, handheld computers, and computer kiosks make use of the prevalent graphical user interfaces (GUI) of today.[5] A user or operator must be able to process whatever information a system generates and displays; therefore, the information must be displayed according to principles to support perception, situation awareness, and understanding. The term is intended to convey that, unlike other tools with specific and limited uses, computers have many uses which often involve an open-ended dialogue between the user and the computer. Much work has been done to make the interaction between a computing system and a human more reflective of the multidimensional nature of everyday communication. Displays are human-made artifacts designed to support the perception of relevant system variables and facilitate further processing of that information. defined 13 principles of display design in their book An Introduction to Human Factors Engineering.[19] A brain–computer interface (BCI), is a direct communication pathway between an enhanced or wired brain and an external device. HCI researchers observe the ways humans interact with computers and design technologies that allow humans to interact with computers in novel ways. When pursuing a post-cognitivist perspective, researchers of HCI may seek to align computer interfaces with existing social practices or existing sociocultural values. The use of knowledge in a user's head and knowledge in the world must be balanced for an effective design.